1. Write a Python program to calculate the length of a string.


2. Write a Python program to count the number of characters (character frequency) in a string.
Sample String : google.com'
Expected Result : {'g': 2, 'o': 3, 'l': 1, 'e': 1, '.': 1, 'c': 1, 'm': 1}


3. Write a Python program to get a string made of the first 2 and last 2 characters of a given string. If the string length is less than 2, return the empty string instead.
Sample String : 'w3resource'
Expected Result : 'w3ce'
Sample String : 'w3'
Expected Result : 'w3w3'
Sample String : ' w'
Expected Result : Empty String


4. Write a Python program to get a string from a given string where all occurrences of its first char have been changed to '$', except the first char itself.
Sample String : 'restart'
Expected Result : 'resta$t'


5. Write a Python program to get a single string from two given strings, separated by a space and swap the first two characters of each string.
Sample String : 'abc', 'xyz'
Expected Result : 'xyc abz'


6. Write a Python program to add 'ing' at the end of a given string (length should be at least 3). If the given string already ends with 'ing', add 'ly' instead. If the string length of the given string is less than 3, leave it unchanged.
Sample String : 'abc'
Expected Result : 'abcing'
Sample String : 'string'
Expected Result : 'stringly'


7. Write a Python program to find the first appearance of the substrings 'not' and 'poor' in a given string. If 'not' follows 'poor', replace the whole 'not'...'poor' substring with 'good'. Return the resulting string.
Sample String : 'The lyrics is not that poor!'
'The lyrics is poor!'
Expected Result : 'The lyrics is good!'
'The lyrics is poor!'


8. Write a Python function that takes a list of words and return the longest word and the length of the longest one.
Sample Output:
list1 = ["Manoj", "Exercises", "Mithil", "AO", "Al_Ma", "Zara", "Exercis"]
Longest word: Exercises
Length of the longest word: 9


9. Write a Python program to remove the nth index character from a nonempty string.


10. Write a Python program to change a given string to a newly string where the first and last chars have been exchanged.


11. Write a Python program to remove characters that have odd index values in a given string.


33. Write a Python program to print the following integers with zeros to the left of the specified width.
 

34. Write a Python program to print the following integers with '*' to the right of the specified width.
 

35. Write a Python program to display a number with a comma separator.
 

36. Write a Python program to format a number with a percentage.
 

37. Write a Python program to display a number in left, right, and center aligned with a width of 10.
 

38. Write a Python program to count occurrences of a substring in a string.
 

39. Write a Python program to reverse a string.
 

40. Write a Python program to reverse words in a string.
 

41. Write a Python program to strip a set of characters from a string.
 

42. Write a Python program to count repeated characters in a string.
Sample string: 'thequickbrownfoxjumpsoverthelazydog'
Expected output :
o 4
e 3
u 2
h 2
r 2
t 2
 
